# QResent Wiki Page

## Description
---
  Attendance in the educational activities, courses, seminars, and laboratorys stands as the basis of how we determine students' involvement.
QResent aims to modernize the current way many faculties use to create and monitor attendance. The application uses as its basis QR codes, that act as a way to check into the sessions that the faculty organizes. Teachers can use the app to generate the codes and show them from their laptops or browsers on the projector for students to scan with their mobile devices. In addition to this, the teachers can monitor the students' involvement and generate statistics with the relevant data.


## The Team behind the project
---

| Member              | Role                  |
| :---                |    :----:             |
| Adrian Brabete      | Project Manager       |
| Stefan Constandache | Team Leader           |
| Bogdan Popescu      | Tester                |
| Andreea Trasnea     | Developer             |
| Andreea Pantelimon  | Developer             |

## The Software Stack 
---
<dl>
  <dt>Dart</dt>
  <dd>The programming language used to bring the idea to life is dart as it's portable due to the flutter framework.</dd>
  <dt>Flutter</dt>
  <dd>The framework has been chosen for its portability to make the app work on mobile, desktop, and web.</dd>
  <dt>Firebase</dt>
  <dd>The database holds the attendance information about the students.</dd>
</dl>

## Functionality
---

The **QResent** application will:

- Accommodate three user types:
  - **Administrator**:  privileged user who manages users and the database.
  - **Teacher**:        privileged user who can manage the subject, generate codes for attendance and statistics
  - **Student**:        end-user, scans QR codes, views information 
- Allows a range of actions to be taken by the teacher to set up and manage a subject:
  - Subject configuration: information on the subject, minimum requirements for entering the exam, bonuses, schedule, etc.
  - Setting activity intervals
  - Generating statistics related to the number of present students and more.
  - Generating QR codes to check for attendance:
    - At the beginning of the activity (contributes to the statistics of present students)
    - Random activity (contributes to active student statistics)
    - At key times, when the teacher wants to check on active students.
    - At the end of the activity (for counting the number of active students throughout the activity and for contributing to the statistics of active students)
  - Exporting the attendance list
    - With student information presented in a unitary way: eg, under the template: NAME First name, group, course platform user
    - Attendance history: for each code that the teacher generates the attendace list will be stored in the database.
- Allows the student to:
  - create a profile with information such as: the group that student is part of, student's username for the course platform, etc.
  - view statistics created by the teacher related to the number of students.
  - scan the QR codes generated by the teacher.

**Usage scenario**: The teacher generates a QR code halfway through the course to display by sharing their screen or using the projector. The QR code will be then scanned by students after which they will be added on the active attendance list. The list can be exported by the teacher at the end of the activity.

## Releases
---
No release is available yet.
